[Music]
if you see a random tennis ball on the
ground call for help you know what can
look less threatening than an abandoned
tennis ball lying on the ground but if
you notice one while walking your dog
don't ever let your pet approach it and
don't pick it up yourself either an
innocent-looking ball can turn out to be
a homemade explosive that can seriously
injure you or your dog before you find
out how approaching a tennis ball can be
a fatal mistake click the subscribe
button after doing this you'll get to
the bright side of life where you'll
find answers to all your puzzling
questions and if you want to be the
first to learn about daily updates on
the channel you better ring the
notification bell so in most cases
tennis ball bombs and other homemade
explosives are found before during or
right after the fireworks season people
pull the insides of fireworks out and
put these explosive materials into
common objects ping-pong balls pipes and
tennis balls after that they add a wick
and oh boy they're illegal homemade
firework is ready
[Music]
some such fireworks are set off
effectively their creators recklessly
launch them into the air and they
explode at first sight it may seem cool
but in fact it's downright dangerous the
problem is some homemade bombs disguised
as harmless tennis balls are left lying
around on the ground people light them
the so-called firework doesn't react and
so they think it's a dud
after all it didn't go boom but who
knows what's happening inside these
things they can easily be smouldering on
the inside then after being moved around
an object that appears to be a simple
tennis ball explodes
this turns tennis balls into time bombs
for curious dogs and small children dogs
love tennis balls upon seeing one your
pet is likely to snatch it and bring it
to you throwing such a booby trapped toy
for your dog to fetch can have dire
consequences in 2000 a man in Portland
Oregon took his dog for a walk never
suspecting that this routine activity
would end in tragedy at some point he
spotted a tennis ball lying on the
ground not far from them the
unsuspecting man picked the ball up and
decided to play fetch with his dog
shockingly after several rounds the ball
blew up in the dog's mouth the injuries
were fatal and the pet had to be put
down
immediately abandoned firecrackers
hidden in tennis balls have been found
repeatedly in different locations from
remote wooded areas too busy
neighborhoods in 2015 a man found a
tennis ball bomb during his hike around
a lake luckily no one was injured
these homemade fireworks present a
danger not only to animals but to people
as well if such a thing goes off in
somebody's hand the chances are high
that this person will lose their limb
imagine if it's a little child eager to
explore their surroundings a bright
green tennis ball would be the first
thing to attract their attention in this
case the consequences could be fatal
this is why it's crucial to stay clear
of stray and abandoned tennis balls and
other suspicious objects try not to pick
them up and forbid your kid or your dog
from playing with them usually you can
easily identify a tennis ball bomb it's
typically a real ball wrapped with some
duct tape there's also a few sticking
out of the package
if it's not wrapped search for any signs
indicating that the ball was cut open or
tampered with there might be a hole
where a fuse used to be other warning
signs you should pay attention to our
scorch marks tape attached to the ball
detectable seams in the places where the
ball was cut or something sticking out
of the ball if you suspect that you
found a homemade tennis ball firework
don't touch it stay a safe distance away
from this object contact your local
police department immediately and make
sure nobody approaches the ball while
the police are on their way
unfortunately such fireworks can easily
be made at home on top of that the
Internet is swarming with
recommendations on how to create
firecrackers on your own these recipes
are often incorrect and unsafe but the
worst thing is that people who make
fireworks at home either don't know or
ignore one extremely important fact
according to the Bureau of Alcohol
Tobacco Firearms and Explosives a
federal law-enforcement organization
homemade fireworks can be used for
personal purposes only and only on your
own property in all other cases a person
needs to have a special federal
explosives license from the ATF
in addition it's often too dangerous to
handle such substances if you aren't
professionally trained just as risking
is tampering with professionally made
fireworks this can lead to serious
injuries and property damage the thing
is homemade explosives are terribly
unpredictable the smallest things like
static electricity heat friction or even
the slightest impact can make them
explode in 2017 alone almost 13,000
Americans ended up in their local ER
after fireworks accidents eight more
people lost their lives most of these
deaths happen when something went
terribly wrong while setting off
homemade fireworks the people who make
explosives and fireworks at home are
most often young adults teenagers and
children it's crucial for parents to
spot the warning signs of such
activities in time the signs are as
follows children might start to behave
differently they don't want to explain
what they spend their pocket money on
they begin to use electrical equipment
parents might catch them carrying weird
backpacks and bags parents come across
such sporting items as ping-pong golf or
tennis balls however their child doesn't
play any of these sports as you can see
from this video these balls are used to
contain explosives and chemicals adults
find gloves and padding that can be used
as protection unusual objects that can
serve as containers should raise
suspicion as well it's important to pay
attention to any plastic and metal pipes
glassware packing tape aluminum foil and
mixing equipment that's lying around or
hidden away parents might notice
websites about explosives open on their
kids computer children can also gather
information from YouTube videos chat
rooms and different social media sites
it's vital to make children and
teenagers aware that their pyrotechnic
activity can't cost them their health
and their life
what's more it can lead to injuries for
other people small kids and animals and
if that's not enough then take it from
me I nearly blew my own finger off
goofing around with a firecracker when I
was a kid
yep I was a [ __ ] listen there are so
many better things to do with your time
than making things that go boom so
what's your attitude toward fireworks do
you think that producing fireworks at
home should be allowed
tell us about your ideas in the comments
section below
because it's important for us to know
your opinion remember to subscribe and
share this video with your friends to
keep them out of harm's way and give us
a thumbs up if you always try to stay on
the safe side of life
[Music]
you